OSDOCS-6182: add improved dns resolution TP concept (#75531)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-coredns-egress-firewall.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/openshift_network_security/configuring-egress-firewall-ovn.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-coredns-egress-firewall_{context}"]

> = Updating subdomains and resolving wildcard domain names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Improved DNS resolution and resolving wildcard domain names
```
Updating subdomains doesn't seem to capture the feature correctly. Does this sound better? Wdyt?

Author: yes, this does sound better! thank you

> There might be situations where the IP addresses associated with a DNS record change frequently or you might want to specify wildcard domain names in your egress firewall policy rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There might be situations where the IP addresses associated with a DNS record change frequently, or you might want to specify wildcard domain names in your egress firewall policy rules.
```

> :FeatureName: Improved DNS resolution for egress firewall rules

Reviewer 2: I would consider moving this snippet after the sentence that starts with "In this situation...." to not break up the explanation of what you're covering in the module. Maybe add it after that sentence, then start a new paragraph with "The `DNSNameResolver` custom resource (CR) stores the following information:"

Author: good suggestion!

include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

In this situation, the OVN-K cluster manager creates a `DNSNameResolver` custom resource object for each unique DNS name used in your egress firewall policy rules. This custom resource stores the following information:

[source,yaml]

> .Example `DNSNameResolver` custom resource definition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `DNSNameResolver` CR definition
```

----
apiVersion: networking.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: DNSNameResolver
spec:
  name: www.example.com. <1>
status:
  resolvedNames:
  - dnsName: www.example.com. <2>
    resolvedAddress:
    - ip: "1.2.3.4" <3>
      ttlSeconds: 60 <4>
      lastLookupTime: "2023-08-08T15:07:04Z" <5>
----

> <1> the DNS name, this can either be a standard DNS name or a wildcard DNS name. For a wildcard DNS name, the DNS name resolution information contains all the DNS names that match the wildcard DNS name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The DNS name. This can be either a standard DNS name or a wildcard DNS name. For a wildcard DNS name, the DNS name resolution information contains all of the DNS names that match the wildcard DNS name.
```

> <2> the resolved DNS name matching the `spec.name` field <1>. If the `spec.name` field contains a wildcard DNS name, then multiple `dnsName` entries are created that contain the standard DNS names that match the wildcard DNS name when resolved. If the wildcard DNS name can also be successfully resolved, then this field will also store the wildcard DNS name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> The resolved DNS name matching the `spec.name` field <1>. If the `spec.name` field contains a wildcard DNS name, then multiple `dnsName` entries are created that contain the standard DNS names that match the wildcard DNS name when resolved. If the wildcard DNS name can also be successfully resolved, then this field also stores the wildcard DNS name.
```

There is a `<1>` after spec.name field that I'm not sure is explained anywhere.

Author: oooh i was trying to reference the previous callout, but i don't think asciidoc is smart enough to understand that lol. i'll remove it

> <3> the current IP addresses associated with the DNS name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<3> The current IP addresses associated with the DNS name.
```
These are sentence fragments but IBM Style has adding punctuation to make consistent with the rest of the items.

> <4> the last time-to-live (TTL) duration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<4> The last time-to-live (TTL) duration.
```

> <5> the last lookup time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<5> The last lookup time.
```

> If during DNS resolution the DNS name in the query matches any name defined in a `DNSNameResolver` CR, then the above information is updated accordingly in the CR `status` field. For unsuccessful DNS wildcard name lookups, the request is retried after a default TTL of 30 minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If during DNS resolution the DNS name in the query matches any name defined in a `DNSNameResolver` CR, then the previous information is updated accordingly in the CR `status` field. For unsuccessful DNS wildcard name lookups, the request is retried after a default TTL of 30 minutes.
```

> The OVN-K cluster manager watches for updates to an `EgressFirewall` custom resource object, and will either create, modify or delete `DNSNameResolver` custom resources associated with those egress firewall policies when one such update occurs.

Reviewer 2: I'm not familiar with this topic, just making sure it's ok to not spell out OVN-Kubernetes here and in a couple of places.

Author: good catch, i think i'll spell it out: the other docs mentioning it seem to do that

> The OVN-K cluster manager watches for updates to an `EgressFirewall` custom resource object, and will either create, modify or delete `DNSNameResolver` custom resources associated with those egress firewall policies when one such update occurs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OVN-K cluster manager watches for updates to an `EgressFirewall` custom resource object, and creates, modifies, or deletes `DNSNameResolver` CRs associated with those egress firewall policies when that update occurs.
```

[WARNING]
====

> It is not recommended to modify `DNSNameResolver` custom resources directly. Doing so might lead to undesired behavior of your egress firewall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not modify `DNSNameResolver` custom resources directly, because this can lead to unwanted behavior of your egress firewall.
```
[SSG](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#recommend) suggests avoiding "recommends" language. [IBM SG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#d) says do not use "desired" (and I guess, undesired)
